In this lecture
I'll be talking about Operators.
An Operator is a method of packaging, deploying,
and managing a Kubernetes application.
This definition comes from the
coreos.com website slash operators
because it's the CoreOS team
that actually came up with this method, the Operator.
It puts operational knowledge in an application.
It brings the user closer to the experience
of managed cloud services,
rather then having to know all the specifics
of an application deployed to Kubernetes.
Once an Operator is deployed it can be managed
using Custom Resource Definitions,
arbitrary types that extend the Kubernetes API.
I just explained to this in the previous lecture.
It also provides a great way to deploy
stateful services on Kubernetes
because a lot of complexities
can be hidden from the end user.
Any third party can create Operators
that you can start using.
There are operators for Prometheus, for Vault,
for Rook, which is providing storage,
for MySQL, for PostgreSQL, and so on.
On a side note, if you're interested, for example, in Rook,
which can provide you storage,
I have another course on Kubernetes which is called
On-premise or Cloud Agnostic Kubernetes.
It's also available on the Udemy marketplace
and this has a couple of lectures on Rook
which is also using an Operator.
In the next demo, I will show you
how to start using an Operator for PostgreSQL.
So PostgreSQL is a database.
It's stateful so it's a little bit more difficult to manage.
So our Operator will help us manage PostgreSQL.
If you would just deploy a PostgreSQL container,
it will only start a database.
If you're going to use a PostgreSQL Operator,
it allows you to also create replicas,
initiate a failover, create backups, scale, and so on.
So you see, it's similar to R-E-S
on L-U-S, if you are familiar with that.
The Operator is acting more like a service on the cloud.
An Operator contains a lot of the management logic
that you as an administrator, or user, might want,
rather than having to implement it yourself.
So if you would just deploy a Postgres container
you would have to implement replicas, failover,
and backups and how to scale it.
Here, this is already written for you in an Operator
and you only have to use tools around this Operator
to then be able to use these functionalities.
We will use tools that come with this PostgreSQL Operator.
Here I just wanted to give you an example yaml extract
where you can see that we are going to use custom objects.
Here we have a different API version
and we have current Pgcluster
which is a PostgreSQL cluster.
This resource doesn't exist on every cluster.
You need to create this C-R-D first.
And only then you can create
these kind of objects on your cluster.
And this Pgcluster is a cluster
that is managed by the Operator.
And then this can provide the extra functionality.
In the next demo I will show you how this works.